Add first deweb doc (#326)
massalabs/docs: docs/deweb/getting-started/overview.mdx

---
title: Overview
---

# Getting Started

Welcome to DeWeb! This guide will help you set up and start using DeWeb,
whether you want to run a local server for personal use or deploy a public instance.

## Introduction

DeWeb provides a fully decentralized web experience by allowing websites to be stored on-chain.
To start using DeWeb, you can choose between two primary paths:

1. **Setting up a Local Server**:
   Ideal for those who want to browse decentralized websites without any intermediaries.

> 2. **Setting up a Public Instance**:

Reviewer: we should stick to the vocabulary from the article ("provider")

>    Suitable for those who want to make decentralized websites accessible to the public through a custom domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Suitable for those who want to make decentralized websites accessible to anyone with a simple browser through their own domain.
```

## Paths to Get Started

### Local Server Setup

Running a DeWeb server locally allows you to:

- Browse decentralized websites directly from the blockchain.
- Ensure complete privacy and autonomy in accessing on-chain data.

For detailed instructions, see [Setting up a Local Server](./setup-local-server).

### Public Instance Setup

Deploying a public instance of DeWeb lets you:

- Provide access to decentralized websites through your own domain.

> - Offer a gateway to the decentralized web for users on any platform (PC, mobile, tablet).

Reviewer: and without requiring them to install any specific software
